[Music]
why do you behave the way you do that
kind of sounds like your parents right
or maybe just my parents
you probably think you're in charge of
how you act but are you in a
never-ending quest to understand the
mystery of the human mind psychologists
have conducted loads of experiments and
their findings may have you questioning
if you're really in control of your
actions at all
for instance number one the conformity
experiment would you ever give a wrong
answer when you know the right one seems
unlikely since we can all be kind of
stubborn when it comes to being right
but it turns out there might be a
situation where you would Solomon Asch
his experiment from the 1960s
demonstrates this it involved ordinary
unsuspecting people and actors who
pretended to be ordinary participants
they were all placed in a room together
and asked to look at two pictures one of
them showed three lines of different
lengths and the other a single line
their task was to tell which line from
the first picture was as long as the
line in the second picture the answer
was always obvious the actors were
instructed to give only wrong answers
and surprisingly 75% of the ordinary
participants went along with the rest of
the group however when they were tested
individually 98% of them gave the
correct answer when they asked the
participants why they gave the wrong
answer the first time most of them
confessed that they agreed with the rest
of the group because they didn't want to
face ridicule Simon Nash went further
with his experiments and decided to find
out if people would go along with the
groups obviously nonsensical behavior
this experiment was even shown on an
episode of the TV show candid camera an
unsuspecting man entered an elevator and
then it was filled with more people who
all stood oddly facing the back wall
talk about awkward at first the man was
really confused but then eventually
turned around to this confirmed even
more that our decisions are greatly
influenced by those our
found us this is a good reminder that
the group isn't always smarter or better
informed are you brave enough to go
against the crowd number two
the smoke-filled room imagine you're
sitting in a room and smoke starts to
billow out of a vent in the wall you'd
probably do something about that right
well I wouldn't be so sure in another
famous experiment from the 1960s carried
out by John Darley and Bibb latane of
Columbia University students were
invited to discuss the problems of city
life which was just a cover before the
discussion they were asked to fill in
some questionnaires in a waiting room
first while they were doing that fix
smoke began to enter the room through a
small vent in the wall when the students
were alone in the room three-fourths of
them left to find someone to tell
because well you know where there's
smoke there's usually fire however when
they were together with other people who
were instructed not to react to the
smoke nine out of ten students silently
kept filling out the forms they thought
it must be okay since other people
didn't seem to care or be worried even
if it could have meant danger this
experiment supports the idea that people
would even act against their best
interest just to fit in because standing
out from the crowd is just too scary do
you agree let me know down in the
comments number three teens without
technology in this digital world it's
hard to imagine a day without devices
how long do you think you can go without
touching your phone Hey the time when
you're asleep doesn't count think you
could make it for eight hours Russian
psychologist Katarina murashova
conducted an experiment in 2011 to see
if a group of teens aged 12 to 18 could
stay away from all gadgets TV video
games and internet for eight hours they
were instructed to spend this time on
their own doing whatever they want as
long as it had nothing to do with
technology out of the sixty eight teens
only three of them passed the test those
who gave up later reported feeling
extremely anxious or super bored
so they just went back to surfing the
net or playing video games
the heroic three that succeeded decided
to indulge in their favorite hobbies
none of them seem bothered by the
absence of tech entertainment later the
psychologist repeated the experiment
with 49 participants aged 11 to 20 but
this time they were allowed to choose
one person a friend relative or their
boyfriend or girlfriend to spend the
eight hours with 13 participants managed
to find something to do for the whole
period of time with their chosen partner
one of the pair's even built a kennel
for a dog neither of them owned the ones
who didn't make it stop the experiment
because they wanted to engage in their
usual activities like watching a movie
together or playing a video game and
they felt the urge to check their social
media hmm I wonder who I'd choose as a
partner for such a task yeah probably my
bed number for violinist in the subway
an unusual experiment was carried out by
the Washington Post in 2011 they asked
Joshua Bell who in case you don't know
is a grammy-winning musician to play the
violin at a subway station in DC dressed
like an ordinary street performer he
played one of the most intricate pieces
ever written on a violin that's worth
are you ready for this
3.5 million dollars I bet the acoustics
in the station made that sound amazing
but the passers-by didn't seem all that
impressed only six people stopped and
stayed to enjoy the music everyone else
just rushed by never giving the time to
appreciate the brilliant performance as
this undercover street musician Joshua
Bell collected 32 bucks but just two
days before the experiment he had a show
that sold out at a huge theater in
Boston where seats cost an average of
$100 I think this is a good reminder to
slow down and pay attention to the
beauty that can show up for us in
unexpected places especially when it's
free v piano stairs do you usually take
the stairs or the escalator yeah the
less physical exhausting
is usually the top choice but what if
the stairs got a little fun makeover huh
what experiment shows that when given a
choice between easy and fun were more
likely to choose fun in 2009 Volkswagen
sponsored a social campaign in Stockholm
Sweden to find out if a bit of fun can
inspire people to change their behavior
they transformed a stairway next to an
escalator into a giant working keyboard
as you walk up or down each step played
a note like a piano the experiment
showed 66% more people than normal
chose to take the stairs proving that
making things fun can help more people
make healthier choices this idea was
soon adopted in some other big cities
like Oakland Melbourne Milan and
Istanbul okay so when are they gonna
bring it to my town 6 the nudge theory
deep down inside we all know what's best
for us
yep we just can't break our bad habits
perhaps all we need is something to come
along and give us a little push in the
right direction The Economist Richard
thaller noticed this when he had a
dinner party with friends while waiting
for the food to be ready they decided to
munch on a large bowl of cashews when
half of it was gone he hid the ball in
the kitchen pantry so they wouldn't ruin
their appetites and waste lines
completely surprisingly the other guests
thanked him for doing that that inspired
thaller to come up with the nudge theory
basically it suggests that people tend
to gravitate toward positive decisions
when they're subtly promoted not when
they're strictly advised this theory is
proven to be true whenever it's been
tested no matter the situation for
example authorities at the Amsterdam
Airport put small fly shaped stickers in
the urinals for men to have something to
aim at this resulted in much cleaner
public restrooms because well there was
80% less spillage in another case one
u.s. grocery store put green arrows on
the floor that led visitors to the fresh
produce section that little nudge had 9
out of 10 people follow them
resulting in more fruits and veggies
being purchased number seven the white
bear experiment
can you stop yourself from thinking
about something in particular one
psychologist ran a series of tests to
see what would happen if someone tried
in 1987
Daniel Wagner asked participants in his
study to do only one thing not think
about white bears for five minutes if
they visualized a polar bear they had to
ring a bell to register the thought well
the more people try to refrain from
thinking about white bears the more they
rang that Bell in fact those who try to
not think about white bears actually
ended up thinking about them more than
other test subjects who were
intentionally trying to imagine a polar
bear now try not to think about that so
which experiment impressed you the most
let me know in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go anywhere
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life